README.md, before:

# DossierFacile Back-end

<pre>
DossierFacile.fr a été créé par le Ministère de la Transition écologique
pour aider à la réalisation de dossiers de location.
</pre>

The project is available at [DossierFacile.fr](https://dossierfacile.fr).

The front-end code is also accessible in [this repository](https://github.com/MTES-MCT/Dossier-Facile-Frontend).

## Infrastructure

![Infrastructure diagram](docs/infrastructure_diagram.jpg)

## Prerequisites

You need to have [JDK 21](https://openjdk.org/projects/jdk/21/), [maven](https://maven.apache.org/) and [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) installed.

## Docker

In this project we use a Docker Compose to setup the dev environment.
Several services are used: 

- PostgreSQL => Database for all the applications
- NGINX => Reverse proxy for the BO to serve SSL
- RabbitMQ => Queue used by pdf-generator, api-tenant and api-watermark

Run:

```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d
```

To create a dedicated user and database for dossierfacile.

## Keycloak

Follow those steps to use [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) in dev environment locally : 

    1 - Follow the README instructions on repo [Dossier-Facile-Keycloak](https://github.com/MTES-MCT/Dossier-Facile-Keycloak).
    2 - Connect to your keycloak admin console (default : http://localhost:8085/auth)
    3 - Create a new realm "dossier-facile"
    4 - Inside the realm create a new Client scope : 
        - Name: dossier
        - Type: Default
        - Display on consent screen: On
        - Include in token scope: On
    5 - Inside the realm create a new client : "dossier-facile-frontend-localhost"
        - Root: Url of the tenant webProject (default : http://localhost:8090)
        - Home URL : Url of the tenant webProject (default: http://localhost:8090)
        - valid redirect Uris : *
        - Valid post logout Uris: *
        - web Origins: *
        - Client authentication : Off
        - authentication flow: Standard flow and Direct access Grants
        - Theme : df 
        - Client scopes : add dossier
    6 - Create a new realm "dossier-facile-owner :
    7 - Inside the realm create a new Client scope : 
        - Name: dossier
        - Type: Default
        - Display on consent screen: On
        - Include in token scope: On
    8 - Inside the realm create a new client : "dossier-facile-owner-localhost"
        - Root: Url of the tenant webProject (default : http://localhost:8090)
        - Home URL : Url of the tenant webProject (default: http://localhost:8090)
        - valid redirect Uris : *
        - Valid post logout Uris: *
        - web Origins: *
        - Client authentication : Off
        - authentication flow: Standard flow and Direct access Grants
        - Theme : df 
        - Client scopes : add dossier
    9 - Inside the realm Master create a new client : "dossier-facile-api"
        - Root: empty
        - Home URL : empty
        - valid redirect Uris : *
        - Valid post logout Uris: *
        - web Origins: *
        - Client authentication : On
        - authentication flow: Standard flow / Direct access Grants / Service account roles
    10 - In this client you need add a Service account roles
        - In the tab "Service Account Roles" add the role "admin"

Save and copy the dossier-facile-api credentials (Client Secret).

## General Config 

Create a new folder `mock-storage` to store files.

- Project : [dossierfacile-api-owner](dossierfacile-api-owner/README.md)
- Project : [dossierfacile-api-tenant](dossierfacile-api-tenant/README.md)
- Project : [dossierfacile-api-watermark](dossierfacile-api-watermark/README.md)
- Project : [dossierfacile-bo](dossierfacile-bo/README.md)
- Project : [dossierfacile-pdf-generator](dossierfacile-pdf-generator/README.md)
- Project : [dossierfacile-process-file](dossierfacile-process-file/README.md)
- Project : [dossierfacile-task-scheduler](dossierfacile-task-scheduler/README.md)

## Build

Run `mvn clean install` from the root folder. This will build every module.

## Launch

In each application folder, run

```
mvn spring-boot:run -D spring-boot.run.profiles=dev,mockOvh
```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Commit message:

chore: Rework readme of the projects after local install on linux

README.md, after:

# DossierFacile Back-end

<pre>
DossierFacile.fr a été créé par le Ministère de la Transition écologique
pour aider à la réalisation de dossiers de location.
</pre>

The project is available at [DossierFacile.fr](https://dossierfacile.fr).

The front-end code is also accessible in [this repository](https://github.com/MTES-MCT/Dossier-Facile-Frontend).

## Infrastructure

![Infrastructure diagram](docs/infrastructure_diagram.jpg)

## Prerequisites

You need to have [JDK 21](https://openjdk.org/projects/jdk/21/), [maven](https://maven.apache.org/) and [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) installed.

## Docker

In this project we use a Docker Compose to setup the dev environment.
Several services are used: 

- PostgreSQL => Database for all the applications
- NGINX => Reverse proxy for the BO to serve SSL
- RabbitMQ => Queue used by pdf-generator, api-tenant and api-watermark

Run:

```
docker-compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d
```

To create a dedicated user and database for dossierfacile.

### Linux users

Add the following lines to your `docker-compose.dev.yml`  :
```yaml
services:
  nginx:
    extra_hosts:
      - "host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
```
You may also need to add pgcrypt extension to your local database running this SQL query:
`CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS "pgcrypto";`

## Keycloak

Follow those steps to use [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/) in dev environment locally : 

    1 - Follow the README instructions on repo [Dossier-Facile-Keycloak](https://github.com/MTES-MCT/Dossier-Facile-Keycloak).
    2 - Connect to your keycloak admin console (default : http://localhost:8085/auth)
    3 - Create a new realm "dossier-facile"
    4 - Inside the realm create a new Client scope : 
        - Name: dossier
        - Type: Default
        - Display on consent screen: On
        - Include in token scope: On
    5 - Inside the realm create a new client : "dossier-facile-frontend-localhost"
        - Root: Url of the tenant webProject (default : http://localhost:8090)
        - Home URL : Url of the tenant webProject (default: http://localhost:8090)
        - valid redirect Uris : *
        - Valid post logout Uris: *
        - web Origins: *
        - Client authentication : Off
        - authentication flow: Standard flow and Direct access Grants
        - Theme : df 
        - Client scopes : add dossier
    6 - Create a new realm "dossier-facile-owner :
    7 - Inside the realm create a new Client scope : 
        - Name: dossier
        - Type: Default
        - Display on consent screen: On
        - Include in token scope: On
    8 - Inside the realm create a new client : "dossier-facile-owner-localhost"
        - Root: Url of the tenant webProject (default : http://localhost:8090)
        - Home URL : Url of the tenant webProject (default: http://localhost:8090)
        - valid redirect Uris : *
        - Valid post logout Uris: *
        - web Origins: *
        - Client authentication : Off
        - authentication flow: Standard flow and Direct access Grants
        - Theme : df 
        - Client scopes : add dossier
    9 - Inside the realm Master create a new client : "dossier-facile-api"
        - Root: empty
        - Home URL : empty
        - valid redirect Uris : *
        - Valid post logout Uris: *
        - web Origins: *
        - Client authentication : On
        - authentication flow: Standard flow / Direct access Grants / Service account roles
    10 - In this client you need add a Service account roles
        - In the tab "Service Account Roles" add the role "admin"

Save and copy the dossier-facile-api credentials (Client Secret).

## General Config 

Create a new folder `mock-storage` to store files.

- Project : [dossierfacile-api-owner](dossierfacile-api-owner/README.md)
- Project : [dossierfacile-api-tenant](dossierfacile-api-tenant/README.md)
- Project : [dossierfacile-api-watermark](dossierfacile-api-watermark/README.md)
- Project : [dossierfacile-bo](dossierfacile-bo/README.md)
- Project : [dossierfacile-pdf-generator](dossierfacile-pdf-generator/README.md)
- Project : [dossierfacile-process-file](dossierfacile-process-file/README.md)
- Project : [dossierfacile-task-scheduler](dossierfacile-task-scheduler/README.md)

## Build

Run `mvn clean install` from the root folder. This will build every module.

## Launch

In each application folder, run

```
mvn spring-boot:run -D spring-boot.run.profiles=dev,mockOvh
```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
